README.md, before:

## The PDF player for the Sunbird!

The PDF player library is powered by Angular. This player is primarily designed to be used on Sunbird consumption platforms _(mobile app, web portal, offline desktop app)_ to drive reusability and maintainability, hence reducing the redundant development effort significantly, and it can be integrated with any platform irrespective of the platforms and the frontend frameworks. It is exported not only as an angular library but also as a web component. 

## Getting started with integration steps

The pdf player can be integrated as a web component and also as an angular library in angular application projects and it can also be integrated into any mobile framework as a web component.

# Use as web components	
Any web based application can use this library as a web component. It accepts couple of inputs and triggers player and telemetry events back to the application.

Follow below-mentioned steps to use it in plain javascript project:

- Insert [library](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/web-component/sunbird-pdf-player.js) as below:
	```javascript
	<script type="text/javascript" src="sunbird-pdf-player.js"></script>
	```
- Update below script in index.html file 
	```javascript
      <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/reflect-metadata/0.1.13/Reflect.min.js"
      integrity="sha512-jvbPH2TH5BSZumEfOJZn9IV+5bSwwN+qG4dvthYe3KCGC3/9HmxZ4phADbt9Pfcp+XSyyfc2vGZ/RMsSUZ9tbQ=="
      crossorigin="anonymous" referrerpolicy="no-referrer"></script>
	```

- Get sample playerConfig from here: [playerConfig](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/src/app/data.ts)

- Create a custom html element: `sunbird-pdf-player`
	```javascript
    const  pdfElement = document.createElement('sunbird-pdf-player');
   ```

- Pass data using `player-config`
	```javascript
	pdfElement.setAttribute('player-config', JSON.stringify(playerConfig));
	```

	**Note:** Attribute name should be in kebab-case regardless of the actual Attribute name used in the Angular app. The value of the attribute should be in **string** type, as web-component does not accept any objects or arrays.

- Listen for the output events: **playerEvent** and **telemetryEvent**

	```javascript
	pdfElement.addEventListener('playerEvent', (event) => {
		console.log("On playerEvent", event);
	});
	pdfElement.addEventListener('telemetryEvent', (event) => {
		console.log("On telemetryEvent", event);
	});
	```
- Append this element to existing element
	```javascript
	const  myPlayer = document.getElementById("my-player");
	myPlayer.appendChild(pdfPlayerElement);
	```
- Refer demo [example](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/web-component-demo/index.html)

- To run the demo project, use the following commands:
	```bash
  cd web-component-demo
	npx http-server --cors .
	```
	open [http://127.0.0.1:8080/](http://127.0.0.1:8080/)
	**Note:** Due to cors errors when you open the index.html from demo folder as file, it is recomanded to run a static server in it like [http-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/http-server).

- ![demo](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/web-component-demo/pdf-player-wc.png)

# Use as Web component  in the Angular app

- Run command 
  ```bash
    npm i @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component
    npm i reflect-metadata
  ```

- Add these entries in angular json file inside assets, scripts and styles like below

  ```bash
            "assets": [
              "src/favicon.ico",
              "src/assets",
              {
                "glob": "**/*.*",
                "input": "./node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component/assets",
                "output": "/assets/"
              }
            ],
            "styles": [
              "src/styles.scss",
              "node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component/styles.css"
            ],
            "scripts": [
              "node_modules/reflect-metadata/Reflect.js",
              "node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component/sunbird-pdf-player.js"
            ]

  ```

- Import  CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA in app module and add it to the NgModule as part of schemas like below

	```javascript
  ...
  import { CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA } from '@angular/core';
  ...

  @NgModule({
    ...
    schemas: [CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA],
    ...
  })

	```

- Integrating sunbird-pdf-player web component in angular component
    
  Create a viewChild in html template of the angular component like

  ```bash

      <div #pdf></div>

  ```

  Refer the viewChild in ts file of the component and create the pdf player using document.createElement, then attach the player config and listen to the player and telemetry events like below and since we are rendering using viewChild these steps should be under ngAfterViewInit hook of the angular component.

```bash

....

@ViewChild('pdf') pdf: ElementRef;

  ....
 ngAfterViewInit() {
    const playerConfig = <Config need be added>;
      const pdfElement = document.createElement('sunbird-pdf-player');
      pdfElement.setAttribute('player-config', JSON.stringify(playerConfig));

      pdfElement.addEventListener('playerEvent', (event) => {
        console.log("On playerEvent", event);
      });

      pdfElement.addEventListener('telemetryEvent', (event) => {
        console.log("On telemetryEvent", event);
      });
      this.pdf.nativeElement.append(pdfElement);
  }
  ....

```

**Note:** : Click to see the mock - [playerConfig](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/src/app/data.ts) and send input config as string 


# Use as Angular library in angular app

For help getting started with a new Angular app, check out the [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli).
If you have an Angular ≥ 9 CLI project, you could simply use our schematics to add sunbird-pdf-player library to it.

## Step 1: Installation

Just run the following:
```red
ng add @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9
```

It will install sunbird-pdf-player for the default application specified in your `angular.json`. If you have multiple projects and you want to target a specific application, you could specify the `--project` option

```red
ng add @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9 --project myProject
```
### Manual installation
If you prefer not to use schematics or want to add `sunbird-pdf-player-v9` to an older project, you'll need to do the following:

<details>
  <summary>Click here to show detailed instructions!</summary>
  
  #### 1. Install the packages:

  ```bash
  npm install @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9 --save
  npm install @project-sunbird/sb-styles --save
  npm install @project-sunbird/client-services --save
  ```

  #### 2. Include the sb-styles and assets in angular.json configuration:
    
  Add following under architect.build.assets and styles
  
  ```diff
  {
    ...
    "build": {
    "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:browser",
    "options": {
      ...
      "assets": [
      ...
  +   {
  +    "glob": "**/*.*",
  +    "input": "./node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9/lib/assets/",
  +    "output": "/assets/"
  +   }	
      ...    
      ],
      "styles": [
      ...
  +   "./node_modules/@project-sunbird/sb-styles/assets/_styles.scss"    
      ...
      ],
      ...
    }
  ```
  

  #### 3. Import the modules and components:

  Import the NgModule where you want to use:

  ```diff
+  import { SunbirdPdfPlayerModule } from '@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9';
  @NgModule({
    ...
+    imports: [SunbirdPdfPlayerModule],
    ...
  })
  export class YourAppModule { }
  
  ```

</details>

## Step 2: Send input to render PDF player

Use the mock config in your component to send input to PDF player
Click to see the mock - [playerConfig](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/src/app/data.ts)

## Player config
```js
var playerConfig = {
  "context": {
    "mode": "play",  // To identify preview used by the user to play/edit/preview
    "authToken": "", // Auth key to make  api calls
    "sid": "7283cf2e-d215-9944-b0c5-269489c6fa56", // User sessionid on portal or mobile 
    "did": "3c0a3724311fe944dec5df559cc4e006", // Unique id to identify the device or browser 
    "uid": "anonymous", // Current logged in user id
    "channel": "505c7c48ac6dc1edc9b08f21db5a571d", // Unique id of the channel(Channel ID)
    "pdata": {
      "id": "sunbird.portal", // Producer ID. For ex: For sunbird it would be "portal" or "genie"
      "ver": "3.2.12", // Version of the App
      "pid": "sunbird-portal.contentplayer" // Optional. In case the component is distributed, then which instance of that component
    },
    "contextRollup": { // Defines the content roll up data
      "l1": "505c7c48ac6dc1edc9b08f21db5a571d"
    },
    "tags": [ // Defines the tags data
      ""
    ],
    "cdata": [], // Defines correlation data
    "timeDiff": 0,  // Defines the time difference
    "objectRollup": {}, // Defines the object roll up data
    "host": "", // Defines the from which domain content should be load
    "endpoint": "", // Defines the end point
    "userData": {  // Defines the user data firstname & lastname
      "firstName": "",
      "lastName": ""
    }
  },
  "config": { 
    "sideMenu": { 
      "showShare": true, // show/hide share button in side menu. default value is true
      "showDownload": true, // show/hide download button in side menu. default value is true
      "showReplay": true, // show/hide replay button in side menu. default value is true
      "showExit": false, // show/hide exit button in side menu. default value is false
      "showPrint": true // show/hide print button in side menu. default value is true
    }
  },
  "metadata": {}, // Content metadata json object (from API response take -> response.result.content)
} 

```

## Metadata Mandatory property description
Metadata gives complete information about the content.

Sample metadata object interface:

```js
"metadata": {
  identifier: string;
  name: string;
  artifactUrl: string;
  streamingUrl?: string;
  compatibilityLevel?: number;
  pkgVersion?: number;
  isAvailableLocally?: boolean;
  basePath?: string;
  baseDir?: string;
}
  ```
  
 In metadata, the following properties are mandatory to play the content.
 
 |Property Name| Description|  Mandatory/Optional| Without field | Comment
|--|----------------------|--| --| --|
| `identifier` | It is  `string` of unique content id | Mandatory | Unable to load the content error | Its a unique content id so Its a required to log the telemetry and other data against content|
| `name` | It is  `string` to represent the name of the content or pdf | Mandatory | Unable to load the content error | Its a required to show the name of the pdf while loading the pdf|
| `artifactUrl` | It is  `string` url  to load the pdf from artifact url | Mandatory | Unable to load the content error | It is required to load the pdf file|
| `streamingUrl` | It is  `string` url  to load the pdf from streaming url | Optional | Unable to load the content error | This is required if you want to load the streaming pdf URL|
| `isAvailableLocally` | It is a `boolean` value which indicate the content is locally available | Optional | Content will not load offline | It is required to know - the content is downloaded and can be played offline|
| `basePath` | It is `string` to represent the base path of the pdf file | Optional | Content will not load offline | It is required to load the pdf file in offline use case|
| `baseDir` | It is `string` to represent the base path of the pdf file | Optional | Content will not load offline |  It is required to load the pdf file in offline use case |
| `compatibilityLevel` | It is `number` to represent the compatibility level | Optional | Default compatibilityLevel 4 will be set | It's an optional field
| `pkgVersion` | It is `number` to represent the version of the current packages | Optional | Default compatibilityLevel `1.0` will be set | it's an optional field
 
  Sample config for mandatory fields
```js
var playerConfig = {
	"metadata": {
		identifier: 'do_31291455031832576019477',
		name: 'NAME_OF_THE_CONTENT',
		artifactUrl: 'https://ntpproductionall.blob.core.windows.net/ntp-content-production/content/assets/do_31291458881611366418883/b331332333_std_5_mathssciencesocial_tm_term-1_opt.pdf'
    }	
}
```

## Telemetry property description
|Property Name| Description| Default Value | Mandatory/Optional|
|--|----------------------|--|--|
| `channel` | It is `string` which defines a channel identifier to know which channel is currently being used.| `in.sunbird` |Mandatory|
| `env` | It is an string containing Unique environment where the event has occurred | ```"contentplayer"```|Optional|
| `pdata` | It is an `object` which defines the producer information. it should have an identifier and version and canvas will log in the telemetry| ```{'id':'in.sunbird', 'ver':'1.0'}```|Mandatory| 
| `mode` | It is a `string` to identify preview used by the user to play/edit/preview | ```play```|Optional|
| `sid` | It is a `string` containing user session id. | ```sid = uid  ```|Optional|
| `did` | It is a `string` containing unique device id.| ```fingerPrintjs2```|Optional| 
| `uid` |It is a `string` containing the user id.| ```actor.id = did ? did : "anonymous" ```|Optional| 
| `authToken` | It is a `string` to send telemetry to given endpoint (API uses for authentication) | ```''```|Optional| 
| `contextRollup` | It is an `object` which defines content roll up data | ```{}```|Optional| 
| `objectRollup` | It is an `object` which defines object rollup data | ```{}```|Optional| 
| `tags` | It is an `array`. It can be used to tag devices so that summaries or metrics can be derived via specific tags. Helpful during analysis | ```[]```|Optional| 
| `cdata` | It is an `array` Correlation data. Can be used to correlate multiple events. Generally used to track user flow | ```[]```|Optional| 
| `host` | It is a `string` which defines the from which domain content should be load|```window.location.origin```  |Optional| 
| `userData` | It is an `object` which defines user data | ```Anonymous```|Optional|


## Config property description
|Property Name| Description| Default Value |  Mandatory/Optional
|--|----------------------|--| --|
| `config` | It is an `object` it contains the `sideMenu`. These will be used to configure the canvas  | ```{  sideMenu: {"showShare": true, "showDownload": true, "showReplay": true, "showExit": false,"showPrint": true}}``` | Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showShare` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide share button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showDownload` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide download button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showReplay` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide replay button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showExit` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide exit button in side menu| ```false```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showPrint` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide print button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |

## Available components
|Feature| Notes| Selector|Code|Input|Output
|--|--|--|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|--|
| PDF Player | Can be used to render pdf | sunbird-pdf-player| *`<sunbird-pdf-player [playerConfig]="playerConfig"><sunbird-pdf-player>`*|playerConfig|playerEvent, telemetryEvent|

<br /><br />

# Use as Web component in Mobile app 
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](README.md#use-as-web-component--in-the-angular-app) to begin using.

# Use as Angular library in Mobile app 
For existing apps, follow these steps to begin using.

## Step 1: Install the packages
Click to see the steps - [InstallPackages](README.md#step-1-install-the-packages)

## Step 2: Include the sb-styles and assets in angular.json

Click to see the steps - [IncludeStyles](README.md#step-2-include-the-sb-styles-and-assets-in-angularjson)
  
## Step 3: Import the modules and components

Click to see the steps - [Import](README.md#step-3-import-the-modules-and-components)


## Step 4: Import in component       

    <sunbird-video-player [playerConfig]="playerConfig" (playerEvent)="playerEvents($event)"
    (telemetryEvent)="playerTelemetryEvents($event)"></sunbird-video-player>  

## Step 5: Send input to render PDF player

Click to see the input data - [playerConfig](README.md#step-4-send-input-to-render-pdf-player)

# Use as Web component in React app 
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/knowlg-portal/tree/release-5.3.0/react-app#readme) to begin using.

# Use as Web component in Flutter app 
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/knowlg-portal/tree/release-5.3.0/flutter_app#readme) to begin using.

# Use as Web component in React native app(Android)
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/knowlg-portal/tree/release-5.3.0/reactNative#readme) to begin using.

## Sample code
Click to see the sample code - [sampleCode](https://github.com/Sunbird-Ed/SunbirdEd-mobile-app/blob/release-4.8.0/src/app/player/player.page.html)
<br /><br />

Commit message:

Issue # KN-961 Angular Migration 15 and vulnerabilities fixes  (#115)
* Issue KN-961 feat: updated package lock file

* Issue KN-961 feat: updated package lock file

* Issue KN-961 feat: Angular version updated to 15

* Issue KN-961 feat: updated player versions

* Issue KN-961 chore: updated node js version of circleci

* Issue KN-961 feat: eslint ignore added

* Issue KN-961 chore: updated package lock file

* Issue  #KN-961 feat:Updated eslint versions

* Issue #KN-961 fix: updated the player dependences version

* Issue #KN-961 fix: updated the player dependences version

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the dependecy

* Issue #KN-961 doc: updated the installation steps

* Issue #KN-961 feat: reverted image to LTS

* Issue #KN-961 fix: updated angular json

* Issue #KN-961 fix: updated angular json

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat:  revert - updated the circleci image to latest

* Issue #KN-961 feat: updated circleci steps

README.md, after:

### Note: 
This version of the angular library is compatilbe with angular version 15 and may not work with older versions of the angular 15 Apps.

## The PDF player for the Sunbird!

The PDF player library is powered by Angular. This player is primarily designed to be used on Sunbird consumption platforms _(mobile app, web portal, offline desktop app)_ to drive reusability and maintainability, hence reducing the redundant development effort significantly, and it can be integrated with any platform irrespective of the platforms and the frontend frameworks. It is exported not only as an angular library but also as a web component. 

## Getting started with integration steps

The pdf player can be integrated as a web component and also as an angular library in angular application projects and it can also be integrated into any mobile framework as a web component.

# Use as web components	
Any web based application can use this library as a web component. It accepts couple of inputs and triggers player and telemetry events back to the application.

Follow below-mentioned steps to use it in plain javascript project:

- Insert [library](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/web-component/sunbird-pdf-player.js) as below:
	```javascript
	<script type="text/javascript" src="sunbird-pdf-player.js"></script>
	```

- Get sample playerConfig from here: [playerConfig](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/src/app/data.ts)

- Create a custom html element: `sunbird-pdf-player`
	```javascript
    const  pdfElement = document.createElement('sunbird-pdf-player');
   ```

- Pass data using `player-config`
	```javascript
	pdfElement.setAttribute('player-config', JSON.stringify(playerConfig));
	```

	**Note:** Attribute name should be in kebab-case regardless of the actual Attribute name used in the Angular app. The value of the attribute should be in **string** type, as web-component does not accept any objects or arrays.

- Listen for the output events: **playerEvent** and **telemetryEvent**

	```javascript
	pdfElement.addEventListener('playerEvent', (event) => {
		console.log("On playerEvent", event);
	});
	pdfElement.addEventListener('telemetryEvent', (event) => {
		console.log("On telemetryEvent", event);
	});
	```
- Append this element to existing element
	```javascript
	const  myPlayer = document.getElementById("my-player");
	myPlayer.appendChild(pdfPlayerElement);
	```
- Refer demo [example](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/web-component-demo/index.html)

- To run the demo project, use the following commands:
	```bash
  cd web-component-demo
	npx http-server --cors .
	```
	open [http://127.0.0.1:8080/](http://127.0.0.1:8080/)
	**Note:** Due to cors errors when you open the index.html from demo folder as file, it is recomanded to run a static server in it like [http-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/http-server).

- ![demo](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/web-component-demo/pdf-player-wc.png)

# Use as Web component  in the Angular app

- Run command 
  ```bash
    npm i @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component
    npm i reflect-metadata
  ```

- Add these entries in angular json file inside assets, scripts and styles like below

  ```bash
            "assets": [
              "src/favicon.ico",
              "src/assets",
              {
                "glob": "**/*.*",
                "input": "./node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component/assets",
                "output": "/assets/"
              }
            ],
            "styles": [
              "src/styles.scss",
              "node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component/styles.css"
            ],
            "scripts": [
              "node_modules/reflect-metadata/Reflect.js",
              "node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-web-component/sunbird-pdf-player.js"
            ]

  ```

- Import  CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA in app module and add it to the NgModule as part of schemas like below

	```javascript
  ...
  import { CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA } from '@angular/core';
  ...

  @NgModule({
    ...
    schemas: [CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA],
    ...
  })

	```

- Integrating sunbird-pdf-player web component in angular component
    
  Create a viewChild in html template of the angular component like

  ```bash

      <div #pdf></div>

  ```

  Refer the viewChild in ts file of the component and create the pdf player using document.createElement, then attach the player config and listen to the player and telemetry events like below and since we are rendering using viewChild these steps should be under ngAfterViewInit hook of the angular component.

```bash

....

@ViewChild('pdf') pdf: ElementRef;

  ....
 ngAfterViewInit() {
    const playerConfig = <Config need be added>;
      const pdfElement = document.createElement('sunbird-pdf-player');
      pdfElement.setAttribute('player-config', JSON.stringify(playerConfig));

      pdfElement.addEventListener('playerEvent', (event) => {
        console.log("On playerEvent", event);
      });

      pdfElement.addEventListener('telemetryEvent', (event) => {
        console.log("On telemetryEvent", event);
      });
      this.pdf.nativeElement.append(pdfElement);
  }
  ....

```

**Note:** : Click to see the mock - [playerConfig](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/src/app/data.ts) and send input config as string 


# Use as Angular library in angular app

For help getting started with a new Angular app, check out the [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli).
If you have an Angular ≥ 9 CLI project, you could simply use our schematics to add sunbird-pdf-player library to it.

## Step 1: Installation

Just run the following:
```red
ng add @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9
```

It will install sunbird-pdf-player for the default application specified in your `angular.json`. If you have multiple projects and you want to target a specific application, you could specify the `--project` option

```red
ng add @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9 --project myProject
```
### Manual installation
If you prefer not to use schematics or want to add `sunbird-pdf-player-v9` to an older project, you'll need to do the following:

<details>
  <summary>Click here to show detailed instructions!</summary>
  
  #### 1. Install the packages:

  ```bash
  npm install @project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9 --save
  npm install @project-sunbird/sb-styles --save
  npm install @project-sunbird/client-services --save
  ```

  #### 2. Include the sb-styles and assets in angular.json configuration:
    
  Add following under architect.build.assets and styles
  
  ```diff
  {
    ...
    "build": {
    "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:browser",
    "options": {
      ...
      "assets": [
      ...
  +   {
  +    "glob": "**/*.*",
  +    "input": "./node_modules/@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9/lib/assets/",
  +    "output": "/assets/"
  +   }	
      ...    
      ],
      "styles": [
      ...
  +   "./node_modules/@project-sunbird/sb-styles/assets/_styles.scss"    
      ...
      ],
      ...
    }
  ```
  

  #### 3. Import the modules and components:

  Import the NgModule where you want to use:

  ```diff
+  import { SunbirdPdfPlayerModule } from '@project-sunbird/sunbird-pdf-player-v9';
  @NgModule({
    ...
+    imports: [SunbirdPdfPlayerModule],
    ...
  })
  export class YourAppModule { }
  
  ```

</details>

## Step 2: Send input to render PDF player

Use the mock config in your component to send input to PDF player
Click to see the mock - [playerConfig](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/sunbird-pdf-player/blob/release-5.5.0/src/app/data.ts)

## Player config
```js
var playerConfig = {
  "context": {
    "mode": "play",  // To identify preview used by the user to play/edit/preview
    "authToken": "", // Auth key to make  api calls
    "sid": "7283cf2e-d215-9944-b0c5-269489c6fa56", // User sessionid on portal or mobile 
    "did": "3c0a3724311fe944dec5df559cc4e006", // Unique id to identify the device or browser 
    "uid": "anonymous", // Current logged in user id
    "channel": "505c7c48ac6dc1edc9b08f21db5a571d", // Unique id of the channel(Channel ID)
    "pdata": {
      "id": "sunbird.portal", // Producer ID. For ex: For sunbird it would be "portal" or "genie"
      "ver": "3.2.12", // Version of the App
      "pid": "sunbird-portal.contentplayer" // Optional. In case the component is distributed, then which instance of that component
    },
    "contextRollup": { // Defines the content roll up data
      "l1": "505c7c48ac6dc1edc9b08f21db5a571d"
    },
    "tags": [ // Defines the tags data
      ""
    ],
    "cdata": [], // Defines correlation data
    "timeDiff": 0,  // Defines the time difference
    "objectRollup": {}, // Defines the object roll up data
    "host": "", // Defines the from which domain content should be load
    "endpoint": "", // Defines the end point
    "userData": {  // Defines the user data firstname & lastname
      "firstName": "",
      "lastName": ""
    }
  },
  "config": { 
    "sideMenu": { 
      "showShare": true, // show/hide share button in side menu. default value is true
      "showDownload": true, // show/hide download button in side menu. default value is true
      "showReplay": true, // show/hide replay button in side menu. default value is true
      "showExit": false, // show/hide exit button in side menu. default value is false
      "showPrint": true // show/hide print button in side menu. default value is true
    }
  },
  "metadata": {}, // Content metadata json object (from API response take -> response.result.content)
} 

```

## Metadata Mandatory property description
Metadata gives complete information about the content.

Sample metadata object interface:

```js
"metadata": {
  identifier: string;
  name: string;
  artifactUrl: string;
  streamingUrl?: string;
  compatibilityLevel?: number;
  pkgVersion?: number;
  isAvailableLocally?: boolean;
  basePath?: string;
  baseDir?: string;
}
  ```
  
 In metadata, the following properties are mandatory to play the content.
 
 |Property Name| Description|  Mandatory/Optional| Without field | Comment
|--|----------------------|--| --| --|
| `identifier` | It is  `string` of unique content id | Mandatory | Unable to load the content error | Its a unique content id so Its a required to log the telemetry and other data against content|
| `name` | It is  `string` to represent the name of the content or pdf | Mandatory | Unable to load the content error | Its a required to show the name of the pdf while loading the pdf|
| `artifactUrl` | It is  `string` url  to load the pdf from artifact url | Mandatory | Unable to load the content error | It is required to load the pdf file|
| `streamingUrl` | It is  `string` url  to load the pdf from streaming url | Optional | Unable to load the content error | This is required if you want to load the streaming pdf URL|
| `isAvailableLocally` | It is a `boolean` value which indicate the content is locally available | Optional | Content will not load offline | It is required to know - the content is downloaded and can be played offline|
| `basePath` | It is `string` to represent the base path of the pdf file | Optional | Content will not load offline | It is required to load the pdf file in offline use case|
| `baseDir` | It is `string` to represent the base path of the pdf file | Optional | Content will not load offline |  It is required to load the pdf file in offline use case |
| `compatibilityLevel` | It is `number` to represent the compatibility level | Optional | Default compatibilityLevel 4 will be set | It's an optional field
| `pkgVersion` | It is `number` to represent the version of the current packages | Optional | Default compatibilityLevel `1.0` will be set | it's an optional field
 
  Sample config for mandatory fields
```js
var playerConfig = {
	"metadata": {
		identifier: 'do_31291455031832576019477',
		name: 'NAME_OF_THE_CONTENT',
		artifactUrl: 'https://ntpproductionall.blob.core.windows.net/ntp-content-production/content/assets/do_31291458881611366418883/b331332333_std_5_mathssciencesocial_tm_term-1_opt.pdf'
    }	
}
```

## Telemetry property description
|Property Name| Description| Default Value | Mandatory/Optional|
|--|----------------------|--|--|
| `channel` | It is `string` which defines a channel identifier to know which channel is currently being used.| `in.sunbird` |Mandatory|
| `env` | It is an string containing Unique environment where the event has occurred | ```"contentplayer"```|Optional|
| `pdata` | It is an `object` which defines the producer information. it should have an identifier and version and canvas will log in the telemetry| ```{'id':'in.sunbird', 'ver':'1.0'}```|Mandatory| 
| `mode` | It is a `string` to identify preview used by the user to play/edit/preview | ```play```|Optional|
| `sid` | It is a `string` containing user session id. | ```sid = uid  ```|Optional|
| `did` | It is a `string` containing unique device id.| ```fingerPrintjs2```|Optional| 
| `uid` |It is a `string` containing the user id.| ```actor.id = did ? did : "anonymous" ```|Optional| 
| `authToken` | It is a `string` to send telemetry to given endpoint (API uses for authentication) | ```''```|Optional| 
| `contextRollup` | It is an `object` which defines content roll up data | ```{}```|Optional| 
| `objectRollup` | It is an `object` which defines object rollup data | ```{}```|Optional| 
| `tags` | It is an `array`. It can be used to tag devices so that summaries or metrics can be derived via specific tags. Helpful during analysis | ```[]```|Optional| 
| `cdata` | It is an `array` Correlation data. Can be used to correlate multiple events. Generally used to track user flow | ```[]```|Optional| 
| `host` | It is a `string` which defines the from which domain content should be load|```window.location.origin```  |Optional| 
| `userData` | It is an `object` which defines user data | ```Anonymous```|Optional|


## Config property description
|Property Name| Description| Default Value |  Mandatory/Optional
|--|----------------------|--| --|
| `config` | It is an `object` it contains the `sideMenu`. These will be used to configure the canvas  | ```{  sideMenu: {"showShare": true, "showDownload": true, "showReplay": true, "showExit": false,"showPrint": true}}``` | Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showShare` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide share button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showDownload` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide download button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showReplay` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide replay button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showExit` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide exit button in side menu| ```false```| Optional |
| `config.sideMenu.showPrint` | It is  `boolean` to show/hide print button in side menu| ```true```| Optional |

## Available components
|Feature| Notes| Selector|Code|Input|Output
|--|--|--|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|--|
| PDF Player | Can be used to render pdf | sunbird-pdf-player| *`<sunbird-pdf-player [playerConfig]="playerConfig"><sunbird-pdf-player>`*|playerConfig|playerEvent, telemetryEvent|

<br /><br />

# Use as Web component in Mobile app 
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](README.md#use-as-web-component--in-the-angular-app) to begin using.

# Use as Angular library in Mobile app 
For existing apps, follow these steps to begin using.

## Step 1: Install the packages
Click to see the steps - [InstallPackages](README.md#step-1-install-the-packages)

## Step 2: Include the sb-styles and assets in angular.json

Click to see the steps - [IncludeStyles](README.md#step-2-include-the-sb-styles-and-assets-in-angularjson)
  
## Step 3: Import the modules and components

Click to see the steps - [Import](README.md#step-3-import-the-modules-and-components)


## Step 4: Import in component       

    <sunbird-video-player [playerConfig]="playerConfig" (playerEvent)="playerEvents($event)"
    (telemetryEvent)="playerTelemetryEvents($event)"></sunbird-video-player>  

## Step 5: Send input to render PDF player

Click to see the input data - [playerConfig](README.md#step-4-send-input-to-render-pdf-player)

# Use as Web component in React app 
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/knowlg-portal/tree/release-5.3.0/react-app#readme) to begin using.

# Use as Web component in Flutter app 
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/knowlg-portal/tree/release-5.3.0/flutter_app#readme) to begin using.

# Use as Web component in React native app(Android)
For existing apps, follow these steps [steps](https://github.com/Sunbird-Knowlg/knowlg-portal/tree/release-5.3.0/reactNative#readme) to begin using.

## Sample code
Click to see the sample code - [sampleCode](https://github.com/Sunbird-Ed/SunbirdEd-mobile-app/blob/release-4.8.0/src/app/player/player.page.html)
<br /><br />
